Hi there.
This is to.
And welcome back.
It's not time to get back to our project.
The bookmarking application Trello.
Since we have learned about JSP and sublets, it's not time to web enable our project.
We know that for our project we have used the MVC pattern, the model view and controller, and the
only missing piece was the view part.
So for the model, we have the managers, the double layer, and also the database which we have implemented
for controller.
We had used some Java files and all we need to do is convert those Java files into servers.
And for the viewport we have used a Java file.
The Java file called View Java was mimicking the front end.
Now, since we have learned about JSP and Servlet, we are going to replace the Java file using JSP
and Servlet.
Now for this extension, we are going to focus only on books.
So let's not worry about movies and web links and let's focus only on books.
So earlier we have implemented the books of our project.
So it's nice that we are going to focus on only books so that we can use some of the code from the books.
Aloha Project.
Let me show you a demo of how the end product would look like.
So this is how the screen would look like, the login screen would look like.
So we are going to have the login functionality and once the user logs in the user can view all the
books that he or she has bookmarked and the user can also view the books that he or she has not bookmarked
yet and can bookmark them.
So this is what we are going to see.
So this is a test application that I have implemented, and the final product that we are going to implement,
the final product will also be exactly identical to this.
So let's go ahead and let me enter a user name.
One of the users was user four at Semantic Square dot com and the password was test.
This login screen is the last one that we are going to implement.
So for this extension, we will have around three lectures to implement this basic functionality of
bookmarking the books.
After three lectures, this would be the last lecture.
So login functionality will be implemented at the very end.
So once the user locks in.
We show the screen.
So this screen will show all the items that the user has bookmarked.
Now, as of now, there are no books that the user has bookmarked.
So we display this message called As You Haven't Saved Any Items.
So let me go into this browse.
There is this link called Browse.
If you click that, it will show all the bookmarks that are not yet bookmarked by the user.
So there are around five books here and these are not yet bookmarked.
So this is the first screen that we are going to implement.
So this would be the next lecture.
Now here there is a link called Save, and if you click on Save, this particular item will be bookmarked
and the user will be taken to the other page, which we have just seen.
And that book will be displayed there.
And a link to that page is also provided here called My Books.
And as the name implies, it will show only books that the user has bookmarked.
So let me go ahead and click on the save button Save Link.
There you go.
So we are taken to the My Books page now.
And in the my books page we once again have this browse link which will take us to the previous page.
So the Browse link will be the first one that we are going to implement and the second lecture will
be focused on saving the bookmark when the user clicks on the save button.
So that would be the bookmarking functionality itself along with this page that we are seeing here,
which is the My Books page.
So that's the second one.
And the last one is the login functionality.
So basically three features.
One page to show all the bookmarks that are not yet bookmarked, which is this page.
And the second one is the bookmarking functionality, which is the save link here.
When you click on that, we are going to save the bookmark for that particular user and along with the
My Books page and they will actually take us to the same page as my books.
So once again, let me click on this one.
So now the user has saved two items.
So this is the second one and the last feature is the login functionality itself.
So that is coming at the very end.
And we also have the logout here.
So if you click on that, we will be taken back to the login page.
So this is a simple application that we are going to implement.
But the nice thing is we have learned everything about it when interacting with the database.
We have learned about the database technology, the MySQL and how to interact with it.
And for the view part, we have already learned about JSP and Servlet and the project.
Also, we have implemented it in an incremental way and as we were learning new features, we were building
the project.
As soon as we have learned the oops concept, we implemented our first version and we gradually improved
it.
And so this is a simple application and we can make it as complicated as as we want to.
And later on you can also implement movies and web links and so on.
So that's about it.
I think you must have like what you have seen right now.
And let's go ahead and implement this project.
Thank you and see you in the next lecture.